<!-- From https://frontend-take-home.fetch.com/ -->

# Fetch Frontend Take-Home Exercise

General Reqs

- Users must be able to filter by breed
- Results should be paginated
- Results should be sorted alphabetically by breed by default. Users should be able to modify this sort to be ascending or descending.
- All fields of the Dog object (except for id) must be presented in some form

Additional Reqs

- Your app should be hosted on the internet where it can be visited and interacted with
- Your source code should be stored in a git repository and hosted on the internet (i.e. GitHub)
- You should include any necessary documentation to run your site locally

Users should be able to select their favorite dogs from the search results. When finished searching, they should be able to generate a match based on dogs added to the favorites list. A single match will be generated by sending all favorited dog IDs to the /dogs/match endpoint. You should display this match however you see fit.

Anything else.🤙🏻

## API Reference

The base URL is https://frontend-take-home-service.fetch.com.

Data Model

Here is the Typescript interface for the Dog objects returned by our API:

```typescript
interface Dog {
  id: string
  img: string
  name: string
  age: number
  zip_code: string
  breed: string
}
```

We also provide endpoints for fetching location data, which should be useful if you’d like to implement filtering dogs by location. Here is the Typescript interface for the Location objects returned by our API:

```typescript
interface Location {
  zip_code: string
  latitude: number
  longitude: number
  city: string
  state: string
  county: string
}
```

```typescript
interface Coordinates {
  lat: number
  lon: number
}
```

## Authentication

You will need to hit the login endpoint in order to access other endpoints. A successful request to the login endpoint will return an auth cookie included in the set-cookie response header. It’s an HttpOnly cookie, so you will not be able to access this value from any Javascript code (nor should you need to). Your browser will automatically send this cookie with all successive credentialed requests to the API. Note that you will need to pass a config option in order to send credentials (cookies) with each request. Some documentation to help you with this:

    Including credentials with fetch (set credentials: 'include' in request config)
    Including credentials with axios (set withCredentials: true in request config)

Postman will do this for you automatically.

`POST /auth/login`

Body Parameters

```typescript
body: {
    name: string,
    email: string
}
```

Response `200 OK`

*An auth cookie, fetch-access-token, will be included in the response headers. This will expire in 1 hour.*

`POST /auth/logout`

*Hit this endpoint to end a user’s session. This will invalidate the auth cookie.*

---
`GET /dogs/breeds`

**Returns an array of all possible breed names.**

`GET /dogs/search`
Query Parameters

The following query parameters can be supplied to filter the search results. All are optional; if none are provided, the search will match all dogs.

    breeds - an array of breeds
    zipCodes - an array of zip codes
    ageMin - a minimum age
    ageMax - a maximum age

Additionally, the following query parameters can be used to configure the search:

    size - the number of results to return; defaults to 25 if omitted
    from - a cursor to be used when paginating results (optional)
    sort - the field by which to sort results, and the direction of the sort; in the format sort=field:[asc|desc].
        results can be sorted by the following fields:
            breed
            name
            age
        Ex: sort=breed:asc

Return Value

Returns an object with the following properties:

    resultIds - an array of dog IDs matching your query
    total - the total number of results for the query (not just the current page)
    next - a query to request the next page of results (if one exists)
    prev - a query to request the previous page of results (if one exists)

The maximum total number of dogs that will be matched by a single query is 10,000.
POST /dogs
Body Parameters

The body should be an array of no more than 100 dog IDs to fetch (no pun intended).

// API Request Function
...
body: string[]
...

Return Value

Returns an array of dog objects
POST /dogs/match
Body Parameters

The body of this request should be an array of dog IDs.

Example

// API Request Function
...
body: string[]
...

Return Value

This endpoint will select a single ID from the provided list of dog IDs. This ID represents the dog the user has been matched with for adoption.

interface Match {
match: string
}

POST /locations
Body Parameters

The body of this request should be an array of no more than 100 ZIP codes.

Example

// API Request Function
...
body: string[]
...

Return Value

Returns an array of Location objects.
POST /locations/search
Body Parameters

The following body parameters can be supplied to filter the search results. All are optional; if none are provided, the search will match all locations.

    city - the full or partial name of a city
    states - an array of two-letter state/territory abbreviations
    geoBoundingBox - an object defining a geographic bounding box:
        This object must contain one of the following combinations of properties:
            top, left, bottom, right
            bottom_left, top_right
            bottom_right, top_left
        bottom_left, top_right, bottom_right, top_left should have the following data:
            lat - latitude
            lon - longitude
        top, left, bottom, right should be numbers corresponding to higher latitude, left-most longitude, lower latitude and right-most longitude respectively.

Additionally, the following body parameters can be used to configure the search:

    size - the number of results to return; defaults to 25 if omitted
    from - a cursor to be used when paginating results (optional)

The maximum total number of ZIP codes that will be matched by a single query is 10,000.

Example

// API Request Function
...
body: {
city?: string,
states?: string[],
geoBoundingBox?: {
top?: number,
left?: number,
bottom?: number,
right?: number,
bottom_left?: Coordinates,
top_left?: Coordinates
},
size?: number,
from?: number
}
...

Return Value

Returns an object with the following properties:

    results - an array of Location objects
    total - the total number of results for the query (not just the current page)

{
results: Location[],
total: number
}
